Add docs page for binary file uploads, for #500 (#2054)
grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway: docs/docs/mapping/binary_file_uploads.md

---
layout: default
title: Binary file uploads
nav_order: 2
parent: Mapping
---

# Binary file uploads

If you need to do a binary file upload, e.g. via;

```sh
curl -X POST -F "attachment=@/tmp/somefile.txt" http://localhost:9090/v1/files
```

then your request will contain the binary data directly and there is no way to model this using gRPC.

What you can do instead is to add a custom route directly on the `mux` instance.

## Custom route on a mux instance

Here we'll setup a handler (`handleBinaryFileUpload`) for `POST` requests: 

```go
// Create a mux instance
mux := runtime.NewServeMux()

// Attachment upload from http/s handled manually
mux.HandlePath("POST", "/v1/files", handleBinaryFileUpload)
```

And then in your handler you can do something like:

```go
func handleBinaryFileUpload(w http.ResponseWriter, rq *http.Request, params map[string]string) {

>   

Reviewer: Remove this newline please

	err := r.ParseForm()
	if err != nil {

> 		panic(err)

Reviewer: Lets make this write an error to the response rather than panic
```suggestion
		http.Error(w, fmt.Sprintf("failed to parse form: %s", err.Error()), http.StatusBadRequest)
		return
```

	}

	f, header, err := rq.FormFile("attachment")
	if err != nil {

> 		panic(err)

Reviewer: Ditto error response

	}
	defer f.Close()

	// header contains filename etc if you need this

	var buffer bytes.Buffer
	_, err = io.Copy(buffer, f)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)

> 	}

Reviewer: I think we can remove this part, since it's not clear the user even necessarily wants to do this, maybe they want to stream from `f` directly rather than read it fully into memory.

	//

> 	// Now do something with the bytes in the `buffer`

Reviewer: Given the above, we can reword this
```suggestion
	// Now do something with the io.Reader in `f`, i.e. read it into a buffer or stream it to a gRPC client side stream.
```

	//

> 	w.WriteHeader(http.StatusOK)

Reviewer: I think we can omit this, the Go HTTP server does it automatically if no other header is written.
